# Supply-Chain-Analytics

# Introduction:
I have tried creating a Supply chain Analytics in order to understand how to improve the effectiveness of the Supply Chain to create more value for customers. The supply Chain is the network of production and logistics involved in producing and delivering goods to customers.

# Insights:
#   1. Relationship between Price of products and revenue generated by them.
   It is found out that company derives more revenue from skincare products, and the higher the price of skincare products, the more
   is revenue they generate.
   
#   2. Sales vs product type.
    The analysis shows 45% of the sales comes from skincare products, 29.5% from haircare, and 25.5% from cosmetics.
    
#   3. Revenue generated across different shipping carriers.
    Analysis shows carrier B helps the company in generating more revenue than C and A.
    
#   4. Average lead time and Average Manufacturing Costs for all products of the company.

#   5. Revenue generated by each SKU.

#   6. Stock level across each SKU.

#   7. Order quantity across each SKU.

#   8. Shipping costs across different carriers.
    Carrier B is the most costly carrier among the different carriers.
    
#   9. Costs distribution across different transportation modes.
    Spending is more on Road and Rail modes of transportation for the transportation of Goods.
    
#   10. Average defect rate of all product types.
    Most defected products are of haircare category.
    
#   11. Defect rates across different modes of transportation.
    Air transportation is the safest mode of transportation and Road transportation results in maximum defect rate.


#   NB : The below link is of Jupyter Notebook viewer as the Plotly graphs are not rendering on github repository.
https://nbviewer.org/github/Nikunja-Barman/Supply-Chain-Analytics/blob/main/Supply%20Chain%20Analytics.ipynb
